Round Robin Edits -JB (#206)
jaybee84/ml-in-rd: content/06.model-complexity.md

## Reducing misinterpretation of model output with statistical techniques 

Machine learning methods are generally accompanied by a few critical assumptions. 

> First, the training dataset contains equal number of samples for all categories (no "class imbalance").

Author: ```suggestion
First, the dataset contains equal number of samples for all categories (no "class imbalance").
```

> Second, the training dataset is complete; all samples have measurements for all variables in the dataset (i.e., the dataset is not "sparse", meaning that it is not missing data for some of the samples).

Reviewer: Hm, would you say that these assumptions are specific to the training set?

Author: agree that this applies to the whole dataset.

> Second, the training dataset is complete; all samples have measurements for all variables in the dataset (i.e., the dataset is not "sparse", meaning that it is not missing data for some of the samples).

Author: ```suggestion
Second, the dataset is complete; all samples have measurements for all variables in the dataset (i.e., the dataset is not "sparse", meaning that it is not missing data for some of the samples).
```

> Third, there is no ambiguity about the labels for the samples in the dataset (i.e. no "label-noise"). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Third, there is no ambiguity about the labels for the samples in the dataset (i.e., no "label-noise"). 
```

Rare disease datasets, however, violate many of these assumptions.
There is generally a high _class imbalance_ due to small number of samples for specific classes (e.g., only a few patients with a particular rare disease in a health records dataset), the data are often _sparse,_ and there may be abundant _label-noise_ due to incomplete understanding of the disease.
All of these contribute to low signal to noise ratio in rare disease datasets.

> Thus, applying ML to rare disease data without any accommodations for the above shortcomings may lead to models that have low reproducibility or are hard to interpret.

Reviewer: Is this shorter? I think this is shorter.

```suggestion
Thus, applying ML to rare disease data without addressing the aforementioned shortcomings may lead to models that have low reproducibility or are hard to interpret.
```

> Class imbalance in datasets can be addressed using decision tree-based ensemble learning methods (e.g. random forests) (Figure[@fig:3]a).

Reviewer: Acknowledging that I'm favoring the American English usage of a comma after i.e. and e.g.

```suggestion
Class imbalance in datasets can be addressed using decision tree-based ensemble learning methods (e.g., random forests) (Figure[@fig:3]a).
```

I am highly attuned to this for whatever reason (my schooling, my schooling is the reason), so I'll probably be consistent in these edits/suggestions and consistency seems considerably more important than whether or not the comma is included.

Definitely not a hill I would die on.

Combining these three unrelated methods resulted in better overall prediction when implemented on a silver standard dataset, than other methods applied in isolation.
In addition to cascade learning, other approaches that better represent rare classes like inverse class weighting and oversampling [doi:10.1613/jair.953] may also help mitigate limitations due to class imbalance. 

Presence of label-noise and sparsity in the data can lead to overfitting of models to the training data, meaning that the models show high prediction accuracy on the training data but low prediction accuracy (and large prediction errors) on new evaluation data. 
Overfit models tend to rely on variables that are unique to the training data (for example, the calibration of the instrument that was used to generate the training data), and not generalizable to new data (e.g., data generated on the same instrument that has been recalibrated). [@doi:10.1073/pnas.1900654116]

> In such cases, regularization can not only protect ML models as well as learned representations from poor generalizability caused by overfitting, but also reduce model complexity by reducing the feature space available for training[@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1004754, @doi:10.1002/sim.6782]. (Figure[@fig:3]a)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In such cases, regularization can not only protect ML models as well as learned representations from poor generalizability caused by overfitting, but also reduce model complexity by reducing the feature space available for training [@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1004754, @doi:10.1002/sim.6782]. (Figure[@fig:3]a)
```
